# CS-320 Portfolio

#### How can I ensure that my code, program, or software is functional and secure?
To ensure that my code, program, or software are fnctonal and secure, there are several approaches that I can take. The first would be to think about security before writting a single line of code so that I can write my code with security in mind from the beginning. Evaluating how secure my program is after I've created the program is too late because I could find vulnnerabilities that will require me to redo a lot of work. Part of thinking about security is considering all possible scenarios that would result in my software being compromised, so taking prevetative steps to address these possibilities is absolutlety necessary. Thinking with a mindset that all software is vulnerable to attackers will improve the chanes that I will create more secure code, programs, or software. Functionaility can be achieved by proper testing using test cases that show that the program is able to do what the client needs it to do.

#### How do I interpret user needs and incorporate them into a program?
User needs can be interpreted by working with the client to build a requirements list of what the program needs to be able to do. Having face-to-face meetings makes this easier to do because written requirements can sometimes be misinterpretted. Fully understanding user needs and requirements can save a lot of time and prevent the need to redo work. The requirements stage is also a good time to make recommendations to the client about more efficient ways to meet their needs.

#### How do I approach designing software?
I approach designing software by making sure that I fully understand the requirements, then I write the requirements down and break them up into smaller requirements. For example, if a user should have the ability to add an entry, then the program will need to check to make sure that the entry doesn't already exist. Once I've completed this step, I can create a form of pseudocode that is easier to read and work from when it comes time to actually coding the program. When coding the actual program, I write code in peices and run it as frequently as I can to ensure that I don't make errors that will affect the more completed program. Finally, I run JUnit tests for the program to ensure that the functional aspects of the program are working as they should. If there are errors, it's much easier to find and fix them.
